hey guys welcome today we're gonna talk
about CDs and resumes specifically for
admissions so if you're sitting and
wondering what you should do with your
CV how do you write it do you need to
provide all the documents to prove
everything that you're mentioning I'm
gonna answer all of those questions in
this video so if you're interested
continue watching
we are going to look at a template
provided by Stanford University it's a
template that I've used it's a template
that you should use and it says that for
every ten years of working experience
you should have one page of your resume
and there is a pretty formal standard
that I would advise you to follow let's
look at this template you start with
your first and last name please don't
play with fonts I know it's very
tempting to download some template from
the internet and to use a font that is
super creative but unless you're a
designer I would stick to something
really formal really easy to read
sometimes fonts make it harder to read
so please stick to this so your first
and last name your telephone number your
email address they say you stand for
address but you don't have it again
we're looking at Stanford's guidelines
then you're going with a summary summary
paragraph highlights your
accomplishments experience tune into a
target job troll key accomplishments or
skills can be included with bullets if
you're applying to your master's program
it's very important to mention here's
something that's relevant to your
master's program maybe you've done a
research on a topic that you're gonna
study maybe you have some work
experience maybe you have some awards
that are worth mentioning I have my CV
ready to download together with my book
the link will be below so basically I
mentioned all of the words that I think
of worth mentioning like opportunity
award by the US government and DA D
award by German government and some
Olympus that I want some progress that I
made with my company because it was
relevant to whatever I was doing and I
was applying to my master's program ah
then you go to you experience you start
with something recent and if you don't
have any work experience this section is
your place by your education where you
go more in depth about your education
but if you have some experience if
you've done some internship it's really
really worth mentioning it here you go
with your organization name city and
state one line organization description
don't include for recognized firms so if
everyone knows what the mercedes-benz
does
and everybody knows you don't have to
describe if it's a smaller company uh
less more known then give a one-liner of
what it does language trip is a study
abroad booking platform whatever your
job title what were you responsible for
if you were a salesperson don't tell
them that you were selling stuff because
that's obvious
instead focus of brief description of
accomplishments with concrete actions
and quantifiable results I always tell
you numbers they play a magic game and
they play a magic trick with your
application the plan was to generate
three thousand dollars in revenues I
generated it's ten thousand dollars and
I was awarded number one salesperson in
my department in a 20-18 quota for
typically three five bullet points
include budget number of people managed
if you managed people please write that
down like manage team of ten if you've
done something extra I would always
mention it like if as part of your sales
job you went to a conference in New York
to represent your company please put it
here as well
or maybe organize something else
organize a conference like mention that
because it's also really important and
it talks about your experience then
mention your previous jobs if you have
them again in the same manner but you
don't have to be so specific you don't
have to go into too many details about
your previous jobs because what matters
is like your recent experience if
there's something notable like please
mention it for the previous jobs as well
if you have anything older than ten
years but I think the majority of you
won't they offer you to create like an
additional experience section way we put
organization name in title then we're
gonna go to education so basically this
is what they are offering to Stanford
graduates to use but it's a good manner
to use this to apply to Stanford or to
apply to any other University because
again if you are taking the highest
standards I'm sure other universities
would appreciate that in terms of your
education you write your degree
institution degree name subject area
year I would also write your GPA and
tell them what's the scale so for
example I wrote five out of five so that
they know that five out of five and if
you were like top five percent of class
or
like that or like a class manager if
something like that exists in your
country ah you can also write it down
because again this is more like
professional because this is more
intended for graduates but I love this
structure this is why we're talking
about it and I used it for all of my
applications all of my students use it
for their applications one-pager maximum
really easy like you can copy/paste
whatever is here the link will be below
to download this file for education I
would write everything down like your
bachelor's if you have it your
additional education maybe you've done
study abroad in your high school and
your middle schools with just GPAs just
mention them there and that's it and
then something additional like language
competences Community Service in my case
I've mentioned languages travel and
ballet and like whatever you like to do
that would have some additional
information about you as a personality a
very important question do you need to
provide all the documents supporting
whatever you wrote there and no you
don't but it should sound realistic if
you're telling them you're the winner of
all the Olympians you're a PhD at the
age of 23 you've done this this and that
they're gonna be suspicious then I'm
gonna believe you and I've talked an
admissions officer from one of the top
universities and she says yes we
actually especially feel like what she
said like for some countries from Asia
they see a lot of like something that
looks like straw to them there are too
many accomplishments that they can not
verify when they Google a company it
looks like it doesn't exist when they
Google in a war it looks like it doesn't
exist
they cannot verify and it looks like too
many accomplishments for a 20 year old
person and they just disregard the
application because they think you are
misleading them and this is something
that you should just learn about America
in general everyone wants to believe you
when you come to the office you don't
bring like papers with you you swear you
just raise your hand and you swear that
you're telling the truth when we got
married in San Francisco they're like
were you married before or like no in
Russia they would tell us like bring all
of your papers in America they would be
like can you swear that you've
married before or like yes we can so
this is it but if you're lying if
there's something you're intentionally
like misleading people then they would
just district out your application you
don't want to do that so no there's no
need to provide additional proof but yes
you need to be honest and if you haven't
won anything till then write it down
find something else maybe if you realize
if you're looking at the CV and you're
like oh my god I don't have anything
that she's mentioning I don't have
working experience that I have this this
and that okay if you're not applying to
top university maybe you don't even need
it if you're ready to pay out of pocket
maybe you don't even need it but if
you're looking for financial aid if
you're looking at high-ranking
universities that maybe take a year off
not off but take a year when you would
go and get some work experience maybe
invest more time into conferences maybe
invest more time into publications like
do something that would make your resume
stand out and this is why I'm doing this
thing this is why I'm recording this
video so you could take action in
advance not like three months before
your deadline this is super important so
look at the application you can Google
some sample CDs download the template
you can download my CV together with my
book where I'm talking about my
admissions journey all of the links will
be below thank you so much for watching
this video I hope this content was
useful if you have any more questions
please chat in comments below
ask questions answer other people's
questions and it will pick up some very
interesting and some common ones I have
you know yes subscribe hit subscribe and
I will see you soon in the next videos
bye